---
layout: post
title: JS, React, CSS interview(1)
date:   2018-04-06 13:52:39
categories: Interview
---

<h2>JS, React, CSS interview(1)</h2>
<p>This morning, I attended a Skype interview. There are some questions I remembered. Most of them are about JavaScript, React.js and CSS.</p>

<ul>
	<li>
		<strong>Difference between <code>undefined</code> and <code>null</code></strong>
		<p><code>Undefined</code>: the type is undefined, declared but no value, NaN. <code>null</code>: the type is an object, value is 0</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Difference between ES5 and ES6</strong>
		<p>
			1. <strong>import</strong> ES5: using <code>require</code>; ES6: using <code>import</code><br/>
			2. <strong>export</strong> ES5: using <code>module.exports</code>; ES6: using <code>export default</code><br/>
			3. <strong>define component</strong> ES5: using <code>React.createClass</code>; ES6: using <code>class .. extends React.Component</code><br/>
			4. <strong>define props</strong> ES5: using <code>propTypes</code> and <code>getDefaultProps</code>; ES6: using <code>static</code><br/>
			5. <strong>initial state</strong> ES5: using <code>getInitialState</code>; ES6: using <code>constructor() and this.state</code><br/>
			6. arrow function<br/>
			and etc.
		</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Event bubbling</strong>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong><code>setTimeout(() => console.log(1), 1000);<br/>setTimeout(() =>console.log(2),0);<br/>console.log(3)</code> result and why</strong>
		<p>Result: 3, 2, 1</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Explain closure</strong>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong><code>for(var i=1;i<=5;i++){setTimeout(function(){console.log(i)},1000)}</code> result</strong>
		<p>Result: after 1000ms, print '6' for 5 times.</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Function.call</strong>
		<p>It can be used to invoke (call) a function with an owner object as the first argument (parameter). With call(), you can use a method belonging to another object.</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Difference beween arrow functions in ES6 and javascript expressions in ES5</strong>
		<p>1. In ES5, the variable <code>this</code> is dynamic, while in arrow function, the variable <code>this</code> is static, which depends on the scope it's defined. <br/>2. Arrow function can't be used as a construct function.</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Explain <code>this</code> variable</strong>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Explain <code>componentDidMount()</code></strong>
		<p><code>componentDidMount()</code> is invoked immediately after a component is mounted. Initialization that requires DOM nodes should go here. If you need to load data from a remote endpoint, this is a good place to instantiate the network request. Calling <code>setState()</code> here will trigger an extra rendering, but it will happen before the browser updates the screen.</p>

	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Explain <code>setState()</code></strong>
		<p>The first thing React will do when setState is called is merge the object you passed into setState into the current state of the component. This will kick off a process called reconciliation.</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Explain variable hoisting</strong>
		<p>A variable was not yet defined, but it still existed in the local space due to the special behavior called hoisting.</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong><code>var a=10; function method(){console.log(a); var a=20;} method()</code> result and why</strong>
		<p>Result: undefined. Variable hoising, equals to <code>var a=10; function method(){var a; console.log(a); a=20;} method()</code></p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Difference between <code>props</code> and <code>state</code></strong>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>How to define a component. ES5 and ES6.</strong>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Explain box sizing</strong>
		<p>box-size=paddig+border+width/height. box-sizing: content-box | border-box | inherit</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Explain inline-block</strong>
		<p>Achieve the same effect as <code>float: left</code> and don't need to clear property.</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>Explain rem and what is 1rem</strong>
		<p>Rem unit is relative to the root, or html, element. We can define a single font size on the html element and define all rem units to be a percentage of that</p>
	</li>
	<li>
		<strong>How to center an inner div within an outer div</strong>
		<p>1. <code>.inner-div{margin: 0 auto;}</code><br/>2. <code>.outer-div{ text-align:center} .inner-div{display: inline-block;}</code></p>
	</li>
</ul>
























